---
layout: post
title: m48a-s15-5192015
date: '2015-05-19 23:44:57'
---

## Quadratic Functions

###Last Time:

We talked about a quadratic function in standard form:

\\[ f(x) = ax^2 + bx + c \\]

where

* a is 1/2 of the acceleration of the object.
* b is the initial velocity of the object.
* c is the vertical intercept. (or the initial position)

We have basically two types of graphs:

* Downward facing when a<0 (negative acceleration)
* Upward facing when a > 0 (positive acceleration)

The graphs of $f(x)$ are 

* symmetric about their vertex,
* have one y-intercept,
* can have zero, one or two x-intercepts. 

###Domain and Range

* mathematical versus practical domain and range.  

**definition:** The mathematical domain is all real numbers $x$ such that $f(x)$ is also a real number.

**example** $f(x) = \sqrt{x-2}$ is defined for $x=4$ because $f(4) = \sqrt{2}$ is a real number, but it is not defined for $x=1$ because $f(1)$ isn't defined. 

**definition** The **practical** domain is all real number input that make sense for the application that your equation is modeling. 

**example:** Suppose that a engine-less rocket is launched at an initial velocity of 128 feet per second directly upward. The height of the rocket is modeled well by the equation \\[ h(t) = -16 t^2 + 128t \\]. Find the **practical** domain and range.   (show graph) 

**example:** Find the domain and range of the quadratic function $f(x) = -(x-4)^2 + 3$. (show graph)

### Working with quadratic equations and inequalities.

Starting without a linear term:

**example** 

* $x^2 - 16 = -7$
* $3x^2 + 28 = 30$
* $2(x-2)^2 + 1 = 5$
* $10 - 2.5x^2 = 0$

**you do:**

* $x^2 + 3 = 7$
* $-9x^2 = -3$
* $2.4x^2 + 7 = 10$
* $5 - 2(x+2)^2 = 3$

Things get a little more complicated when we have a linear term:

**example:**

* $x^2 + 3x = 2x +14$
* $2x^2 -10x = 0$
* $x^2 + x = -x^2 - x + 12$

When we have an application we need to fist find the equation:

Suppose that the revenue is given by the price times the number of units sold. Suppose that I sell 200 items when I charge \$2.50 and for every 50 cents I raise the price I lose 20 customers. 

* Find a model $R(p)$ where $R$ is the revenue of my company when I charge $p$. 
* At what price will the revenue be zero. 
* Find the practical domain and range (from the graph)

**you do** A stadium had 25,000 tickets that it can sell. If the venue charges \$60 per ticket they sell about 18,000 tickets. For every \$5 they raise the price they loose about 10 tickets sold. 

* Find the revenue that the stadium can collect as a function of the price that they charge per ticket. 
* For what prices will the revenue be zero. 
* Find the practical domain and range. 


When using real data we have to use regression:

(number 35 in 4.2) 

you do

(number 34 in 4.2)    


Solving more in general (graphical and using quadratic formula) 

* $x^2 -3x + 2 = 0$
* $-16 t^2 + 32t + 5 = 0$


## Working with inequalities (graphically and sign charts)

* $x^2 \leq 9$
* $x^2 + 3x > 14-2x$
* $x^2 - x \geq x+ 5$